# MODEL1112050000: Kiselyov2009_InsulinReceptorModel

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1112050000.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1112050000.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**Harmonic oscillator model of the insulin and IGF1 receptors' allosteric binding and activation.**   
Kiselyov VV, Versteyhe S, Gauguin L, De Meyts P. _Mol Syst Biol._ 2009;5:243.
[19225456](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19225456) ,  
**Abstract:**   
The insulin and insulin-like growth factor 1 receptors activate overlapping
signalling pathways that are critical for growth, metabolism, survival and
longevity. Their mechanism of ligand binding and activation displays complex
allosteric properties, which no mathematical model has been able to account
for. Modelling these receptors' binding and activation in terms of
interactions between the molecular components is problematical due to many
unknown biochemical and structural details. Moreover, substantial
combinatorial complexity originating from multivalent ligand binding further
complicates the problem. On the basis of the available structural and
biochemical information, we develop a physically plausible model of the
receptor binding and activation, which is based on the concept of a harmonic
oscillator. Modelling a network of interactions among all possible receptor
intermediaries arising in the context of the model (35, for the insulin
receptor) accurately reproduces for the first time all the kinetic properties
of the receptor, and provides unique and robust estimates of the kinetic
parameters. The harmonic oscillator model may be adaptable for many other
dimeric/dimerizing receptor tyrosine kinases, cytokine receptors and G
-protein-coupled receptors where ligand crosslinking occurs.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


